We're gonna first look at
talking about props and
handling props so this was mentioned
before about handling default.
So let's pretend we have a component
that's our greeting component,
and right now,
we are setting the defaults by
essentially going greeting or
hi or prop name or John.
And don't get me wrong, if you got simple
stuff, this is perfectly fine to do.
It's probably the most
performant way of doing it.
We just have a condition and
we decide if it's there short or not, but
what if you're using these props in
multiple places, you don't really want
to maybe go through and every single
place put the defaults, it's error-prone.
So, merge props does help us here, right?
And, it lets us basically
pass in essentially
an array as many objects
as arguments as we
want that we wanna merge together.
So, in our case,
we want them to actually be the defaults.
So we actually put the object first so
we might be like greeting,
Hi, and name John,
did I have it, yeah John.
And with this suddenly,
instead of doing props greeting or
whatever, we can just kind
of get rid of this now and
just be like merged or
let's say merged, and, and
we still get our default behavior
of when we don't provide it.
We add an extra h, we get the default
values depending on if they're provided.
But we can do other things too, right?
We can put the arguments after and
then they sit on top, it's basically
like a function version of the term
I guess like a spread essentially.
So, similarly split props where what
if we wanted to pull
a few of our props off,
again, this works the first time you
render because these values are real.
But the problem is they won't
be reactive when you update.
So, in this simple example,
if I click Set Name,
it's never updating because it only
ran the first time and you accessed.
The problem is when you do these spreads,
you're actually accessing the reactive
variables at that point and
not under an effect.
For that reason, we have local and others,
let's say, often people actually,
very common pattern here is
actually just to not even do that.
You can shorthand your tuples
by just putting a comma.
And then we can split props, and
then we can pass the props in.
And then we pass an array
of what we want out of it,
which in this case, I think we're
looking for greeting and name.
And if all works well,
essentially I'm just gonna do
prop stock reading, but
it could also be this.
We now have pulled these properties off,
so when we spread on to the h1,
we don't get a bunch of extra
stuff that we don't need on it,
we're not gonna serialize
name on our header element.
And now when we update, so
it went from Jacob to Jarod
because we maintained reactivity.
The last helper I wanted to
show was a children helper.
And the idea in this example is that.
So we have a colored list parent
component that's actually
interested in what we map
back from the children.
So we actually have a for list, and for
each color we're actually
passing in these items, right?
And then the colored list goes,
I wanna do something with them.
So like essentially, while this
example is a little bit trivial,
we could pretend like we wanted
to actually map over them again.
Maybe update them, had some color to them,
change the element.
And we can do this as basically
by using our children helpers.
So what we're gonna do is,
it's the only thing that's
a little bit fun about
naming the helper children
[LAUGH] is that You can't
use it as a variable name,
something that occurred to me much later,
but here we are.
[LAUGH] But, we have now
resolved the children.
So that inside this memo, we're gonna
actually have real DOM elements,
and for the sake of this example
I'm gonna create an effect and
in our effect we're actually gonna go.
Okay, give me those children
actually do a dumb thing on them,
I'm gonna go item.style.data for
the color equals I don't know, red.
See if I get that wrong, Let's make
it props.color, okay, even better.
Then we have the ability for
a parent component to basically
introspect on the parent.
What's important to remember though is
we're still accessing props.children down
here, which means we're
accessing it twice.
So we actually should also update
this to use our result children.
And this is the other purpose
of the children helper.
If we need to resolve
the children multiple times,
we don't want it to render multiple times.
So for that reason, the children
helper let's us do introspection.
Most of time you're just gonna pass it
straight through, but if you actually need
to do work with it, this will let us
operate without doing re rendering.
So now, we can see that we're getting
our purple color being set by our for
each, and when we set the color to
the new color we now get a nice teal.
So, this is powerful pattern because
it lets you take a parent component and
augment the children.
Use sparingly, admittedly because it's
a bit of an abstraction leak, because for
example, here we have to know that
we're dealing with real DOM elements.
So, if you're using making
a generic component that works
on multiple platforms,
you might not want to do this but
it is still a pattern that exist in solid.